Overview
========

:url:
:save_as: index.html

**Greetings.** Welcome to the `Hesselberth lab
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/academics/colleges/medicalschool/departments/biochemistry/Faculty/PrimaryFaculty/Pages/Hesselberth.aspx>`_
in the `Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics department
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/academics/colleges/medicalschool/departments/biochemistry/Pages/Home.aspx>`_
at the `University of Colorado School of Medicine
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/anschutz/Pages/landing.aspx>`_. We develop
molecular methods to study DNA, RNA and proteins, and apply them to study
specific biological problems. We also collaborate extensively with others
to apply these methods as broadly as possible.

:fa:`fa-flask fa-3x fa-border fa-color-zissou pull-left` **DNA modification and
mutation**. We are developing genome-scale methods for studying how DNA
modifications lead to mutation. Our new `Excision-seq method
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25015380>`_ enables high resolution
mapping of modified nucleobases throughout the genome. We aim to use this
method to dissect the mutational process, to understand how hot spots of
mutation form in the human genome. We are currently using Excision-seq to
study uracilcation of HIV genomes during infection, and mammalian DNA
demethylation. We are also extending the method to characterize other
types of DNA damage in genomes, including sugar and phosphate
modifications.

:fa:`fa-flask fa-3x fa-border fa-color-zissou pull-left` **RNA healing and decay**. We
have developed `methods <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20075163>`_ to
identify RNAs with "dirty" ends that are generated by programmed or
unintentional RNA cleavage. We discovered that healing of these "dirty"
ends governs the fate of RNA fragments, poising them for further
processing or decay. Moreover, competition between RNA repair and decay
regulates an important cellular homeostasis pathway, suggesting that this
mode of regulation may be widespread. We are currently developing new
methods for identifying unhealed RNAs, and are applying this new
collection of methods to identify RNAs subject to healing, repair and
decay. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

News :fa:`fa-newspaper-o fa-color-zissou`
*****************************************

.. check news items with `make publish` to confirm they fit in 1 line on
.. the page.

| :fa:`fa-bullhorn` `Recruiting <https://t.co/JkUp4oxUQj>`_ a new genomics
  faculty member [2014 Aug 31]

| :fa:`fa-birthday-cake` Sally passed her comprehensive exam! [2014 Aug 16]

| :fa:`fa-group` Jay, Sally and Suzi attended the GSA Yeast meeting in
  Seattle. [2014 Jul 29]

| :fa:`fa-group` Jay gave a talk at the FASEB RNA Decay meeting in Big
  Sky, MT [2014 Jul 6]

| :fa:`fa-home` Patrick Cherry joins the lab! [2014 Jul 1]

| :fa:`fa-book` Our manuscript describing `Excision-seq
  <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25015380>`_ is
  published in Genome Research. [2014 Jul 1]

| :fa:`fa-book` Our manuscript describing a new mode of `branched RNA
  turnover
  <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24919400>`_ is
  published in RNA.  [2014 Apr 1]

| :fa:`fa-book` Our study with Dave Barton and Daphne Cooper to
  globally map RNase L substrates is published in `NAR
  <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24500209>`_ 
  [2014 Apr 1]


