Overview
========

:url:
:save_as: index.html

**Greetings.**
Welcome to the `Hesselberth lab
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/academics/colleges/medicalschool/departments/biochemistry/Faculty/PrimaryFaculty/Pages/Hesselberth.aspx>`_
in the `Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics department
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/academics/colleges/medicalschool/departments/biochemistry/Pages/Home.aspx>`_
at the `University of Colorado School of Medicine
<http://www.ucdenver.edu/anschutz/Pages/landing.aspx>`_. We develop
molecular methods to study DNA, RNA and proteins, and apply them to study
specific biological problems.

:fa:`fa-flask fa-3x fa-border pull-left` **DNA modification and
mutation**. We are developing genome-scale methods for studying how DNA
modifications lead to mutation. Our new `Exicision-seq method
<http://genome.cshlp.org/content/early/2014/08/03/gr.174052.114.abstract>`_
enables mapping of modified nucleobases throughout the genome. We are
currently using Excision-seq to study uracilcation of HIV genomes during
infection, and DNA demethylation by 5-methyl cytosine oxidation.  These
methods enable dissection of the mutational process, and may yield
insights into how hot spots of mutation form in the human genome.

:fa:`fa-flask fa-3x fa-border pull-left` **RNA healing and decay**. We
previously developed `methods
<http://rnajournal.cshlp.org/cgi/pmidlookup?view=long&pmid=20075163>`_ to
identify RNAs with "dirty" ends that are generated by programmed or
unintentional RNA cleavage. We recently discovered that repair of these
"dirty" ends governs the fate of RNA fragments, poising them for further
processing or decay. Moreover, competition between RNA repair and
decay regulates an important cellular homeostasis pathway, suggesting that
this regulation of RNA fate may be widespread.

News :fa:`fa-newspaper-o`
-------------------------

+ Recruiting a new genomics faculty member in the Biochemistry and
  Molecular Genetics department `[link] <https://t.co/JkUp4oxUQj>`_. [2014
  Aug 31]

+ Sally Peach passes her comprehensive exam. Huzzah! [2014 Aug 16]

+ Patrick Cherry joins the lab! [2014 Jul 1]

+ Our `manuscript
  <http://genome.cshlp.org/content/early/2014/08/03/gr.174052.114.abstract>`_
  describing Excision-seq is published in Genome Research. Congratulations
  Suzi and Monica! [2014 Jul 1]

