Projects
########

:status: hidden

We develop molecular methods that enable genomic discovery, leveraging advances
in next-generation DNA sequencing and computational biology. 

Next-generation proteomics and whole proteome sequencing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Unlike the recent massive acceleration realized in DNA sequencing, polypeptide
sequencing is a comparatively slow process. Whereas we can now sequence ~1
billion 50 base-pair fragments of DNA per day on a single instrument, a single
mass spectrometer (MS) is only capable of ~100 thousand unique polypeptide
sequences. Even with improvements in upstream sample preparation and liquid
chromatography, we are approaching the fundamental speed limit of MS analysis,
and further increases in the speed of polypeptide sequencing by MS will likely
be incremental. A massively-parallel platform for peptide sequencing -
analogous to those available for sequencing DNA - could revolutionize the
analysis of complex protein mixtures, enabling quantitative, digital
measurements of peptide abundance that have not been previously achievable. We
are developing methods for peptide sequencing and identification on an
unprecedented scale, and are exploring extensions of this new technology to
study protein posttranslational modifications including phosphorylation and
glycosylation. 

Genome-scale molecular tools for analyzing modified DNA nucleobases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In addition to the four primary DNA nucleobases, a number of base modifications
expand the chemical diversity of DNA in vivo and have profound effects on
genome function. Intrinsic modifications, such as 5- methyl cytosine and
uracil, are part of normal cellular metabolism and play integral roles in
genetic and epigenetic regulation. In contrast, extrinsic modifications, such
as pyrimidine dimers and nucleobase oxidation, arise from a variety of
environmental exposures and can initiate aberrant cell growth or death. A
detailed view of intrinsic and extrinsic nucleobase modification is necessary
for a holistic view of genetic and epigenetic regulation, but we lack a global
picture of how base modifications are created, maintained and repaired, and how
their spatial distribution impacts genome function. We developed a method for
identifying the precise genomic positions of modified DNA nucleobases by
coupling in vitro base excision with next-generation DNA sequencing. In our
first application of this method, we determined the precise, genome-wide
positions of uracil in E. coli and S. cerevisiae strains that accumulate uracil
in their genomic DNA, and discovered a conserved positional bias in genome-wide
uracil content. We have also extended the Excision-seq method to identify
pyrimidine dimers in UV-irradiated DNA, and are currently using this method to
characterize "hotspots" of UV-associated mutation that underlie common human
skin diseases.

Genome-scale molecular tools for identifying novel RNAs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We recently developed a method for the capture and sequencing of RNAs with
terminal 2',3'-cyclic phosphates. Cyclic phosphate-terminated RNAs are
generated by endonucleolytic cleavage and self-cleaving ribozymes, and are
found as stable modifications on cellular RNAs such as the U6 spliceosomal RNA.
We have collaborated with several groups to use this reagent to identify
cleavage products of cellular ribonucleases as well as new catalytic RNAs.
Because the method employs a ligase with unique specificity, it enables the
characterization RNA populations that have gone undetected by other RNA cloning
techniques. We have recently extended the method to identify RNAs with
5'-hydroxyl groups, and have applied the method to discover novel RNA
cleavage fragments in the budding yeast transcriptome.

